- [Instructor] So now we're going to jump in
and actually create our project
that we're going to use throughout the rest of this course.
I'd like you to start with your IDEA,
in this case, I'm using IntelliJ ultimate edition.
Now most of these functions that I'm going to use
are actually built into every IDEA.
You may have to hunt around a little bit
for your specific version,
but I'm not doing anything that's too off the wall abnormal
as far as working with an IDEA.
So look up the documentation for your specific IDEA
if you don't know how to do these functions.
The first thing that I'm going to do, however,
is I'm going to create a new project.
Now I'm going to be presented with a whole bunch of options,
and I'm going to start with the Maven project.
I'm going to make sure that my project SDK is set at 11
because that's what I'm going to use
throughout the rest of this course.
And I'll go ahead and set Next.
Now I'm going to put some Maven specific information
into this window.
So I'm going to start with my group name
and my group name is going to be Come-Frankmolly-lil-jdbc.
And the name of my artifact will be learning-jdbc
and I will set my version to 1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.
Now, if you've worked with Maven,
this should all look very, very familiar
and IntelliJ just gives me a nice wizard
to go ahead and create the POM file,
which is what we're going to do.
So the next thing is I need
to actually pick where I want to put this.
Now I'm going to use a local directory
in my home directory called code,
and I'm going to do /learning-jdbc.
Now, if you're using the exercise files,
you can definitely leverage it
from the exercise files itself, but that's up to you.
This is just where I'm going to put my code.
So now that my project is actually opened up,
we're starting with the POM file itself,
which is the heart of how Maven does dependency management
as well as builds.
And we're going to add a few things to our POM file.
I'm going to start here and add a property section.
Now there are a lot of properties
that can be built in a Maven,
and we're going to leverage some of those.
The first is a internal property we will create
called java.version.
And we will set that to 11
and now Maven runs a compiler plugin,
and this is how it actually does its compilation.
So we're going to set our Maven compiler target
to the value of java.version.
Now you may ask why we're doing it in this way.
And the simple fact is that
now I can actually just change the version
in one spot instead of multiple.
The other one that we're going to set here
is Maven compiler source.
And again, we'll use our java.version
and now we're ready to build out a dependency section.
So we'll start with some dependencies
and we're going to go ahead and add our first one.
Now the artifact name that we're going to add is PostgreSQL
and the group that we will use is PostgreSQL.
And then we will specify a version.
And the version that we are going to use is 9.1-901-1.jdbc4.
Now, I have my IDEA set up to auto import Maven,
and it's gone ahead and done that.
And I can show you if we open up the extra libraries
that I have a Maven Postgress dependency,
which is what I would expect.
So now we're going to open up the tree in source main Java.
We're going to create a new package
and the name of that package will match our group name.
So Come-Frankmolly-lil.jdbc.
In my case, yours may vary
and I'll go ahead and select, OK
and that creates my package.
And that was in that package.
I'm going to create a new Java class file.
And the name that I'm going to give this is JDBCExecuter.
And basically the purpose of this class
is just going to give us a main entry point of our application
so we can run all of the functions that we're going to do
throughout the rest of this course.
So we will just add a public static void main method
that takes a string array of args.
And we will simply do a system.out.println,
"Hello Learning JDBC."
And this is really just a test
that we've got everything set up going forward.
Now IntelliJ, I get this nice little ability
to run this main method.
Every IDEA has a way to turn a main method
on to run internally in the IDEA.
I'm going to leverage the quick connect,
but you guys all have something very similar.
What we want to do here
is actually just run this main method
and running it in the IDEA
is really the easiest way to move forward.
So I'll go ahead and click my play button here
and allow it to run.
And it's going to compile, and once it's compiled,
it's going to execute the program
and you'll see, I have, "Hello Learning JDBC"
as I would expect.
So at this point, our project is ready to go.